Definition for Golden Signals (#413)
cncf/glossary: content/en/golden_signals.md

---
title: Golden Signals
status: Feedback Appreciated
category: concept
---

## What it is

> Golden signals contain a set of criteria that provide a wide view of a service from a user’s perspective . It is the gold standard for monitoring a web application’s performance.

Reviewer: The first sentence is a mouth full :) Remember that we are trying to make this accessible to anyone.  

The most basic information we need to convey is that golden signals are metrics. Signal doesn't necessarily imply that. That's the first aha moment. Then we need to explain what kind of metrics. There are typically four: latency, traffic, errors, and saturation. Followed by a quick note as to why they are important. Why should you care about golden signals? Does that make sense?

Golden signals are key metrics for any application, not only web apps, btw.

Reviewer 2: Also likely worth linking out to one of the google SRE docs where they define golden metrics, ex: https://sre.google/sre-book/monitoring-distributed-systems/#xref_monitoring_golden-signals

## Problem it addresses

> Old monitoring tools are much suitable as these were created to monitor machines, not microservices. On the other hand, most of the modern monitoring systems offer a huge variety of parameters for various purposes, making it easy to drown in and lose focus of what really is relevant for the application.

Reviewer: I think we should focus on the problem that occurs if we don't have that type of data. Without having latency, traffic, errors, and saturation data, operators are flying blind. What does typically goes wrong when you don't have that data?

---
title: Golden Signals
status: Feedback Appreciated
category: concept
---

## What it is

> [Golden signals](https://sre.google/sre-book/monitoring-distributed-systems/#xref_monitoring_golden-signals) are metrics that help us understand how [services](https://glossary.cncf.io/service/) are experienced by users. Today, it is the gold standard for monitoring application performance and focuses on four specific metrics: Latency, traffic, errors, and saturation. The first three metrics relate to requests. A request is a message sent from one service to another. Services do that to collaborate and work as a [distributed app](https://glossary.cncf.io/distributed_apps/).

Reviewer: Added links and an explanation of what requests are. If people are not familiar with that, the next section is hard to understand.

> *Latency* is the time it takes to service a request. *Traffic* measures the request frequency placed on the application. *Errors* measure the request failure rate. And *Saturation* measures the capacity of app resources, allowing users to address bottlenecks before they become a problem.

Reviewer: We really want to make sure the glossary is consistent in style, so instead of subheadings, I added them all in a paragraph. I also removed the details after errors as that was too much detail for this section

Reviewer: Ok, great! In that case, let's end with "distributed app."  Rest looks good to you, @iamNoah1?

 
## Problem it addresses

> Without metrics, engineers have nothing to deduce why applications are behaving a certain way. While earlier monitoring tools were designed to monitor machines (not applications/services), modern monitoring systems gather a huge variety of parameters. They collect so many metrics that it's easy to lose focus on what is relevant for the user. Which of all these metrics should you focus on to ensure your customers have a great user experience?

Reviewer: You started introducing golden signal here (last two sentences). I move that to the next section.

> Without metrics, engineers have nothing to deduce why applications are behaving a certain way. While earlier monitoring tools were designed to monitor machines (not applications/services), modern monitoring systems gather a huge variety of parameters. They collect so many metrics that it's easy to lose focus on what is relevant for the user. Which of all these metrics should you focus on to ensure your customers have a great user experience?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Finding out why an application behaves a certain way, especially when it doesn't behave like expected, can be a hard task for engineers. While earlier monitoring tools were more focused on monitoring machines (not applications/services), modern monitoring systems gather a huge variety of metrics. It's easy to lose focus on what is relevant for the user experience. Which of all these metrics should you focus on to ensure your customers have a great user experience?
```

Rephrased the first sentence because the statement was not true. Metrics are not the only way to find out why an application behaves a certain way. There a certain other ways to achieve that. For example logging, IDE assisted live debugging even code analysis.

## How it helps
Golden signals help engineers focus on metrics that matter for the user experience. They help steer clear from getting stuck in the mud by putting performance data into different buckets and providing the visibility needed to pinpoint problems that might affect the user.

*Latency* tells us how long it takes the application to handle transactions. An increase in latency is likely a sign of a performance issue.

> Measuring website traffic allows a clear understanding of what is working or what isn't and develops a more potent content. It helps in better utilization of traffic.

Reviewer: Don't think this is the right example. It's probably more about knowing when to app should scale and balance the load? But I'd defer to @iamNoah1.

Reviewer 3: I agree. If the traffic increases, we should scale up and the other way around. I am still not sure if we really need to explain what those metrics are.
